feat: Add jmxtrans deployment (#2339)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/proc-jmxtrans-deployment.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka.adoc
// assembly-jmxtrans.adoc.

[id='proc-jmxtrans-deployment-{context}']
= Configuring a JMXTrans deployment

.Prerequisites

> * A running kubernetes cluster

Reviewer: capital "K"

You can configure a JmxTrans deployment using the jmxTrans property in the following resources:

> * `Kafka.spec`

Reviewer: I would just say "You can configure a JmxTrans deployment by using the `Kafka.spec.jmxTrans` property. @PaulRMellor wdyt?

The `host` and `port` property defines the target host address and target port the data is pushed to.
The `name` property is a required property which is referenced by `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions.jmxTrans.queries` property.

An example configuration pushing JMX data in the Graphite format every 5 seconds to a Logstash database on "http://myLogstash:9999" and another pushing to standardOutput:
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    jmxOptions:
      # ...
      jmxTrans:
        outputDefinitions:
          - outputType: "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.GraphiteWriter"
            host: "http://myLogstash"
            port: 9999
            flushDelay: 5
            name: "logstash"
          - outputType: "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.StdOutWriter"
            name: "standardOut"
        # ...
    # ...
  zookeeper:
    # ...
----

.Configuring JmxTrans queries
JmxTrans queries specify what JMX metrics are read from the Kafka brokers.
Configure the `targetMBean` field to specify which target MBean on the Kafka broker is addressed.

> Configuring the `attributes` field specify which MBean attribute is JMX metrics read from the target MBean.

Reviewer 2: _Suggested change:_

Configuring the `attributes` field specify which MBean attribute is JMX metrics read from the target MBean.

`>>`

Configuring the `attributes` field specifies which MBean attribute is read from the target MBean.

JmxTrans supports wildcarding to read from various target MBeans, but to filter for specific MBeans configure the `typenames`.

> `outputs` define where the metrics are pushed to by specifying the name of the output definitions.

Reviewer 2: _Suggested change:_

`outputs` define where the metrics are pushed to by specifying the name of the output definitions.

`>>`

The `outputs` field defines where the metrics are pushed to by specifying the name of the output definitions.

> JmxTrans deployment below reads from all MBeans that match the pattern `kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,*`

Reviewer 2: _Suggested change:_

JmxTrans deployment below reads from all MBeans that match the pattern `kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,*`

`>>`

The following JmxTrans deployment reads from all MBeans that match the pattern `kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,*`

(Is the comma before the wildcard required?)

Author: Will implement the change :) and yes the comma is required.

Reviewer 2: OK! :)

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// assembly-deployment-configuration-kafka.adoc
// assembly-jmxtrans.adoc.

[id='proc-jmxtrans-deployment-{context}']
= Configuring a JMXTrans deployment

You can configure a JmxTrans deployment using the jmxTrans property in the following resources:

* `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions`

A JmxTrans deployment can read from a secure or insecure Kafka broker.

To configure a JmxTrans deployment, define the following properties:

* `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions.jmxTrans.outputDefinitions`

> * `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions.jmxTrans.queries`

Reviewer 3: Link down to the appendix?

Reviewer 3: Something like: 

For more information on these properties see, xref:type-JmxTransSpec-reference[`JmxTransSpec` schema reference].

.Configuring JmxTrans output definitions

Output definitions specify where JMX metrics are pushed to, and in which data format.

> For information about supported data formats, see link:https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/OutputWriters[Data formats^]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For information about supported data formats, see link:https://github.com/jmxtrans/jmxtrans/wiki/OutputWriters[Data formats^].
```

> .How many seconds JmxTrans agent will wait for before pushing new data can be configured through the `flushDelay` property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
How many seconds JmxTrans agent waits before pushing new data is configured through the `flushDelay` property.
```

> The `host` and `port` properties defines the target host address and target port the data is pushed to.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `host` and `port` properties define the target host address and target port the data is pushed to.
```

> The `name` property is a required property that is referenced by `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions.jmxTrans.queries` property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `name` property is a required property that is referenced by the `Kafka.spec.kafka.jmxOptions.jmxTrans.queries` property.
```

> Here is an example configuration pushing JMX data in the Graphite format every 5 seconds to a Logstash database on "http://myLogstash:9999" and another pushing to standardOutput:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is an example configuration pushing JMX data in the Graphite format every 5 seconds to a Logstash database on \http://myLogstash:9999, and another pushing to `standardOut` (standard output):
```

[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    jmxOptions:
      # ...
      jmxTrans:
        outputDefinitions:
          - outputType: "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.GraphiteWriter"
            host: "http://myLogstash"
            port: 9999
            flushDelay: 5
            name: "logstash"
          - outputType: "com.googlecode.jmxtrans.model.output.StdOutWriter"
            name: "standardOut"
        # ...
    # ...
  zookeeper:
    # ...
----

.Configuring JmxTrans queries
JmxTrans queries specify what JMX metrics are read from the Kafka brokers.

> Configure the `targetMBean` field to specify which target MBean on the Kafka broker is addressed.

Reviewer 3: We tend use property rather than field in the doc.

> Configuring the `attributes` field specifies which MBean attribute is JMX metrics read from the target MBean.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Configuring the `attributes` field specifies which MBean attribute is read as JMX metrics from the target MBean.
```

> JmxTrans supports wildcarding to read from various target MBeans, but to filter for specific MBeans configure the `typenames`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
JmxTrans supports wildcards to read from target MBeans, and filter by specifying the `typenames`.
```

> The `outputs` defines where the metrics are pushed to by specifying the name of the output definitions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `outputs` property defines where the metrics are pushed to by specifying the name of the output definitions.
```

The following JmxTrans deployment reads from all MBeans that match the pattern `kafka.server:type=BrokerTopicMetrics,*`

> that have `name` in the target MBean's name.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and have `name` in the target MBean's name.
```
